README.md, before:

# BlueROV
ROS 2 nodes for collecting data from the BlueROV and surface vehicle.

# Installing Nodes and Dependencies
## Python Dependencies
- pymavlink
- scipy

## gscam2
Needed to get the video from the BlueROV as a ROS topic.

1. Install dependencies ```apt-get install -y libgstreamer1.0-0 gstreamer1.0-plugins-base gstreamer1.0-plugins-good \
 gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly gstreamer1.0-libav gstreamer1.0-tools \
 gstreamer1.0-x gstreamer1.0-alsa gstreamer1.0-gl gstreamer1.0-gtk3 gstreamer1.0-qt5 gstreamer1.0-pulseaudio \
 libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev```
2. In the ROS workspace, go to the src folder.
3. ```git clone https://github.com/ptrmu/ros2_shared.git -b $master```
4. ```git clone https://github.com/clydemcqueen/gscam2.git```
5. ```cd ..```
6. ```rosdep install -y --from-paths . --ignore-src```
7. ```source /opt/ros/$TARGET_ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash && colcon build```

Between 6 and 7, may also need to run:
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-camera-info-manager```
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-camera-calibration-parsers```

For testing with computer webcam:
- ```export GSCAM_CONFIG="v4l2src name=cam_src ! decodebin ! videoconvert ! videoscale ! video/x-raw,format=RGB ! queue ! videoconvert"```
- ```ros2 run gscam2 gscam_main```
- In RViz, create an image visualization and subscribe to /image_raw

## apriltag_ros
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-apriltag-ros```


# Running Things
## gscam2 Node Connected to BlueROV Camera
- ```export GSCAM_CONFIG="v4l2src device=/dev/video1 do-timestamp=true ! queue ! video/x-h264,width=1920,height=1080,framerate=30/1 ! h264parse ! avdec_h264 ! videoconvert"```
- ```ros2 run gscam2 gscam_main```

## Apriltag Node
- ```ros2 run apriltag_ros apriltag_node --ros-args -r image_rect:=/image_raw -r camera_info:=/camera_info --params-file `ros2 pkg prefix apriltag_ros`/share/apriltag_ros/cfg/tags_36h11.yaml```

Commit message:

Set up correct (probably) messages from Mavlink for the BlueROV's data.
Copied over the basic data collection structure to the USV.

Updated the README with the correct gstream config for using the
BlueROV's camera over a UDP port.

README.md, after:

# BlueROV
ROS 2 nodes for collecting data from the BlueROV and surface vehicle.

# Installing Nodes and Dependencies
## Python Dependencies
- pymavlink
- scipy

## gscam2
Needed to get the video from the BlueROV as a ROS topic.

1. Install dependencies ```apt-get install -y libgstreamer1.0-0 gstreamer1.0-plugins-base gstreamer1.0-plugins-good \
 gstreamer1.0-plugins-bad gstreamer1.0-plugins-ugly gstreamer1.0-libav gstreamer1.0-tools \
 gstreamer1.0-x gstreamer1.0-alsa gstreamer1.0-gl gstreamer1.0-gtk3 gstreamer1.0-qt5 gstreamer1.0-pulseaudio \
 libgstreamer-plugins-base1.0-dev```
2. In the ROS workspace, go to the src folder.
3. ```git clone https://github.com/ptrmu/ros2_shared.git -b $master```
4. ```git clone https://github.com/clydemcqueen/gscam2.git```
5. ```cd ..```
6. ```rosdep install -y --from-paths . --ignore-src```
7. ```source /opt/ros/$TARGET_ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash && colcon build```

Between 6 and 7, may also need to run:
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-camera-info-manager```
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-camera-calibration-parsers```

For testing with computer webcam:
- ```export GSCAM_CONFIG="v4l2src name=cam_src ! decodebin ! videoconvert ! videoscale ! video/x-raw,format=RGB ! queue ! videoconvert"```
- ```ros2 run gscam2 gscam_main```
- In RViz, create an image visualization and subscribe to /image_raw

## apriltag_ros
- ```sudo apt install ros-jazzy-apriltag-ros```


# Running Things
## gscam2 Node Connected to BlueROV Camera
- ```export GSCAM_CONFIG="udpsrc port=5601 ! application/x-rtp, payload=96 ! rtph264depay ! avdec_h264 ! decodebin ! videoconvert ! video/x-raw,format=RGB ! queue ! videoconvert"```
- ```ros2 run gscam2 gscam_main```
- Note: The port that the video stream is exposed at on the BlueROV needs to be an odd number so that it's treated as a video stream and not audio.

## Apriltag Node
- ```ros2 run apriltag_ros apriltag_node --ros-args -r image_rect:=/image_raw -r camera_info:=/camera_info --params-file `ros2 pkg prefix apriltag_ros`/share/apriltag_ros/cfg/tags_36h11.yaml```
